This folder contains all the supplemental files of the manuscript as follows.

Supplemental File 1: Summary statistics for all transposable elements identified on primary contigs of the Pst-104E assembly 
Tab separated list per TE as generated by the REPET analysis pipeline see Methods for details.

Supplemental File 2: Functional annotation of Pst-104E protein coding genes
Tab separated list of gene IDs followed by annotation term or accession number

Supplemental File 3: Summary statistics of the allelic variation for each allele pair
Tab separated list of allele pairs, their codon based Levenshtein distance on the CDS and protein level, the percentage identity on the protein level defined by blast, dN/dS ratio calculated by vn00 and the classification for each primary contig and haplotig protein.

Supplemental File 4: Allele pairs identified between primary contigs and haplotigs of the Pst-104E assembly
Tab separated list of gene IDs with one pairing per line followed by one of the three classifications: “Classic” alleles, alleles on non-overlapping associated haplotigs, alleles on non-associated haplotigs. See Figures S4 for illustration of these allele classifications.

Supplemental File 5: Inter-haplotype paralogs of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs that we identified as inter-haplotype paralogs.

Supplemental File 6: Unphased gene loci on primary contigs of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs that we identified as being unphased based on primary contigs after coverage analysis of Illumina short read mapping data. 

Supplemental File 7: Singletons of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs that we identified as singletons as these lack alleles and inter-haplotype paralogs. 

Supplemental File 8: Single haplotype genes of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs that we identified as single haplotype genes. See main text for details. 

Supplemental File 9: EffectorP predicted effector candidates of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs that we identified as candidate effectors using the machine learning approach EffectorP.

Supplemental File 10: Expression pattern of the Pst-104E secretome
Tab separated list of gene IDs followed by their expression cluster as shown in Figure 4.

Supplemental File 11: Non-redundant list of candidate effectors of the Pst-104E assembly
List of gene IDs of all candidate on primary contigs and haplotig effector candidate singletons.

Supplemental File 12: Parameters of the FALCON assembly pipeline used for the Pst-104E assembly

Supplemental File 13: Parameters of the FALCON-Unzip processing of the Pst-104E assembly

Supplemental File 14: Parameters of the REPET Tedenovo repeat prediction of the Pst-104E assembly

Supplemental File 15: Parameters of the REPET Teanno repeat prediction of the Pst-104E assembly

Supplemental File 16: Parameters of EvidenceModeler to unify gene predictions of the Pst-104E assembly

Supplemental File 17: Parameters of PASA pipeline to map de novo transcripts on the Pst-104E assembly
